[AIP-11] Allow round creation via Registry (#19)
allo-protocol/aips: AIPS/aip-11.md

aip: 11
title: Changes to Registry, RoundFactory, and AlloSettings Contracts
status: In Review
type: Core
author: Aditya Anand <aditya@gitcoin.co>, Kurt Merbeth <kurt@gitcoin.co>

created: 2023-05-30

## Abstract

This AIP proposes several changes to the Registry, RoundFactory, and AlloSettings contracts in order to enhance functionality, improve security, and streamline contract interactions in the project ecosystem.

## Motivation

The motivation behind these proposed changes is to address certain limitations and inefficiencies in the existing contracts. By renaming the ProjectRegistry contract to simply Registry, we aim to simplify the naming convention and make it more intuitive for users. The addition of the createRound function in the Registry contract allows projects to create rounds using a unique ID, which is constructed based on the chain ID, registry address, and project ID. This improves the management and identification of rounds within the system.

> Furthermore, by purging the ProgramFactory and ProgramImplementation contracts, we eliminate redundant functionality and simplify the contract structure. Updating the project struct to include projectMetadata provides a more comprehensive representation of projects, while the introduction of the updateProjectMetadata function enables easy updates to the project metadata.

Author: ```suggestion
Furthermore, by purging the ProgramFactory and ProgramImplementation contracts, we eliminate redundant functionality and simplify the contract structure. Updating the project struct to include programMetadata provides a more comprehensive representation of projects, while the introduction of the updateProgramMetadata function enables easy updates to the program metadata.
```

- Add an interface for AlloSettings to facilitate integration with other contracts.
- Update the RoundFactory contract to use AlloSettings for the trustedRegistry.
- Update both the RoundFactory and RoundImplementation contracts to use the IAlloSettings interface for consistency and compatibility.

## Non-goals

The following goals are not included in this AIP:

- Changes to contracts other than the Registry, RoundFactory, and AlloSettings contracts.
- Changes to contracts outside the scope of the proposed modifications.

## Specification

### Changes to Registry Contract

- Rename the ProjectRegistry contract to Registry.
- Add the following function to the Registry contract

:

```solidity
    function createRound(
        IRoundFactory roundFactory,
        uint256 projectID,
        bytes calldata encodedParameters
    ) external onlyProjectOwner(projectID) returns (address)```

- Update the project struct in the Registry contract to include the following field:

```solidity
    struct Project {
        uint256 id;
        MetaPtr projectMetadata;
        MetaPtr programMetadata;
    }
```

- Add the following function to the Registry contract:

```solidity

>     function updateProjectMetadata(

Author: ```suggestion
    function updateProgramMetadata(
```
